1.- Climate-neutral container terminal: How does it work? | Sustainability

World's first climate neutral container terminal

Containers on large vessels are economically and ecologically sensible
Transfer for employees free from CO2 emissions.
Fully automated vehicles for container transport,
partly powered by batteries with no CO2 emissions.
Container handling is all about efficiency.
The cranes load and unload containers at the same time.
This saves time and energy.
Automated transport vehicles bring the containers to storage blocks.
The cranes there run on green energy.
CTA never sleeps
not even at nights
The block storage area used to be fully lit at night
Nowadays, the lights are only turned on when people are working there.
They transfer the containers to the trucks by remote control.
This results in savings of 2 million kWh every year.
That's the annual usage of 1,200 people.
Containers on the way to the rail terminal.
It's the largest container rail terminal in europe.
The cranes run on green energy to.
Railway transport is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport across land.

Resumen la automatizacion de un puerto en el aspecto de logistica aplicada

2.- Why learn control systems at all?

The control system is the glue of all the engieniering fields
As Electrical Engineer.- Be able to design switching regulators and realy a feedback and it can be unstable 

Communications Engineer
Design Automatic Gain Control System, that automatic increases gain in weak signals and decreases in strong signals

Mechanial Engineer
In considerations of vibrations or kind of stuffs, and may design isolation system for a system sentitive of vibrations.

As civil engineer
Design system for seismic activity

As Industrial Engineer design robotic asemble lines or controls for robotics applications.

As Aerospace Engineer.
create system for aerodynamic vibrations

Describe more disciplines for control theory ..

Will give you a different perspective on relatively normal activities as well, like when
you set your wineglass down a bit too hard and it rings out at a set frequency and you begin to image the vibrating mode of the wineglass and as the sound slowly dies out you envision the amplitude of the vibration getting smaller and smaller as the energy has dissipated through heat and sound and when you touch a vibrating glass with your finger you are increasing the damping in the system and causing a faster dissipation of energy as the sound dies out more quickly or perhaps you recognize that a vibrating wineglass is essentially the technology behind hemispherical resonating gyroscopes which are used on some submarines and some satellites for dead reckoning dead.
reckoning is the process of calculating a position by knowing where you started and the advancing that position using measured speeds over time and as you slowly rotate your vibrating wineglass in your fingers you imagine the standing wave of the vibrations rotating at a slightly different rate due to coriolis forces and then you remember the coriollis effect is observed in a rotating coordinate frame like the earth and it's the reason for the rotational direction of storms in the northern and southern hemisphere and you try to imagine the intensely complicated differential equations that drive the entire weather system on earth and wonder if you could approximate any part of them as a low order ordinary differential equation so you can write down a computer simulation that gives basic predictions of global weather.
Patterns and it's at this point you realize that control system theory is so much than tuning a PID controller or getting an inverted pendulum to stand upright. Its buildinf models of your system and then simulating it to make predictions it's understanding the dynamics and how they interact with the rest of the system
- its filtering out noise and rejecting outside disturbances
- its designing or selecting proper sensors and actuators
- its testing your system to ensure it will perform as expected in an unexpected environment and ultimately
- its being able to understand your system at the most basic level

3.- Automation https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XJLMW6l303g

Automation it the novel name of an ancient wisdom.
a wisdom dating back to many millennia where arts and genius blend together.

The science that ensued from it has less than two centuries, the name Automation, a few decades.

Automation deals with the complex set of activities needed to take rational decisions in constantly evolving and partially unknown wolrd, relying on available and relevant information and of course is all about mathematics!

You start with a formal representation of the system you want to control, you may want to linearize it, you can analyze it by using its phase portrait, by computing the state trajectory, or by looking at its input response, you can switch to the frequency domain by means of Laplace transform, compute the eigenvalues, obtain the transfer function, and plot Nyquist and Bode diagram.

Then you can design the control loop choosing a suitable control law among: state feedback with pole placement, proportional, integral and derivative actions on the reference error, Lyapunov fuction or optimal control methods, and don't forget to solve the differential riccati equation!

Basically automation gives you the tools to make something accomplish a task automatically.

Whatever it is the task you're dealing with, you need three fundamental ingredients: the measurement, the control and the actuation.

The measure tells you how things are going the controller is the brain that given the measurements decides which is the action to do the actuator is the one who executes this action.

Let's try to better understand the roles with a little experiment!

((Example of brushing teeth))

In this experiment we have seen the role of each block and we clearly understand that all of them are crucial to complete the desired task, but how can they interact with each other?

How can they talk to each? what are they made of? how does the controller decide what is the appropriate action to do? Well, Automation answers all of these questions and many more!!

Whether you have to brush your teeth, make a coffe, heat a room, drive a car, control chemical or nuclear reaction, launch a satellite, effciently produce and distribute electrical power from renewable sources, or visit another planet.. Automation is exactly what your looking for!


4.- Tacoma Bridge https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3mclp9QmCGs

5.- What Control Systems Engineers Do https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ApMz1-MK9IQ

6.- Control Systems Lectures LTI Systems https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eDDTFcSC_Y

7.- Laplace transform https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VJ9phDRys_I

8.- Transfer fuctions https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJleGwXorUk
